
At a macro level, IT Budgeting Challenges are simply understanding how much IT is spending, where it is spent, and if this spend is providing value to the company. At the next level, it is challenging to know if specific IT functional spend is creating a draft or a lift of revenue as compared to your competitors. 2% to 10% of Revenue can be spent on IT depending upon the type of business, industry and size althought 4%-6% is more typical, but using spend as a % of revenue can skew perspectives as IT spend can rise or fall due to unique events. The pandemic is an exammple of this as businesses had to shift to cloud and online rapidly. Another example is large investments in security spend are needed to protect business continuity in a world of aggressive and sophisticated ransomware attacks. This investment is another event ocurruing that requires investment across both Run and Grow budget categories. If IT leaders do not have a structured budget process connected to an investment framework it is hard to explain the budget to the business sponsors and hard for IT leaders to understand IT priorities.

An approach to building a Budget Framework is to segment the budget into 4 categories of investments:
Transform, Grow, Run, Must Do's.  The Must Do's are investments such as Regulatory Requirements, Coporate Policies, Executive Mandates, etc. and these are allocated first and not included in a budgeting prioritization/allocation exercise since these are must investments and will be just removed from the Budgeting Framework. Allocating Spend across IT projects will use the top level categories of Transform, Grow, or Run to label the projects. For each of these top level categories we can use the a deeper view and add Competitive Advantage, Future Opportunity, Core Business, Supporting the Business to fill out the investment grid. As an example spend should be appropriate for Competitive Advantage and Core Business, and should be contained for Supporting the Business and potentially delayed for Future Opportunity projects.  The ultimate goal is to over time shrink Run costs as a % of overall IT Spend and allocate these funds to Transform and Grow categories such that IT can innovate and help grow revenue, and not just run the existing business. Using this approach over time IT can begin to show business transformation articulating investments % in the categories of Transform and grow, hopefully using a smaller % of sales as the IT budget spend since IT helping to accerlate revenue faster than IT costs are growing.




Capturing the value generated by IT spend is challenging. Many IT investments such as regulatory, provacy, or security are avoiding costly problems that if implemented correctly will simply result in "no bad things happened", a loss was prevented, and risk was reduced or mitigated. Convincing stakeholders that the absence of a negative event occurring is sometimes hard to communicate, is not measurable, and hard to determine if there is over investment in these areas, until of course there is a negative event.  Also success in the business is not only up to IT as IT is more of an enabler for the business success and it is hard to determine if the sucess was due to the IT invetment, or was it a compbination of many other areas of the business such as sales, marketing, etc. Also the timing of the investment might not be connected to the success in the same fiscal years, and the great work by IT setting up the success might be forgotten since other areas of the business might not transform to take advantage of the new IT platform for a delayed time and the connection between the investment and the postiive results are not obvious to business stakeholders.

An approach to help demonstrate IT value is to 

